2.1 Operating Systems

OS - manages multiple processes simultaneously and manages hardware/software.

Desktop/servers - more complicated than single purpose devices.

Windows - not unix based
Mac and Linux - unix based

Mac - proprietary code


2.1.1 Decision points

Servers - No GUI, share one monitor and keyboard, CLI based.
Desktops - GUI present, Ease of use prioritized, CLI optional.


What is the devices main goal? Must be determined to decided. Certain sotware needs,  quantity of the devices and maintenance circle lifetime.

Hardware upgrades come before software expense wise. 

Server needs have decreased due to cloud services appearing.

Stable is preferred over beta software in businesses
The longer an old library lasts the better

Physical controls - swithches- punch cards to cli usage.


2.2 Microsoft windows

16 windows versions 

latest server - 2019.
Windows developing CLI and WSL massively to fight against linux

2.3. Apple MacOS

FreeBSD project based, UNIX Certified, easy to use

MacOS server aimed at small businesses, integrated with ios devices.
Offered to those who dont necessarily need windows. 
Great for productivity.


2.4 Linux

Obtained by downloadable distros.
Brings a package manager and handles drivers and default apps by its self.

Distros have a thousand purposes - servers, desktops, super computers. handheld devices and so on

Much faster to fix security issues than closed source operating systems.
 
Application support varies hugely by the fact of what methods do you have of running it.

Dev packages to contribute code for future fixes.

Stability varies hugely by distribution and release type.

Linux comes in 2 modes: GUI and CLI.


2.4.1 Linux distros

RedHat - enterprise desktop with RHEL (server redhat)
Fedora - Redhat but new for users with a short release cycle

SUSE - server fucker for corpos
openSUSE - consumer fucker for everyone

Ubuntu - Canonicals child

Mind - Fork of ubuntu

Android - sponsored by google, most popular Linux and lies inside phones.

Raspbian - raspberry pi main OS for low power and energy cost systems.

LFS - Build your own Linux distro effectively from the beginning.


2.4.2 Embedded Systems.

Linux at first only worked on Linus Torvalds Intel 386 PC.
Everyone else in the community brought the support.
Linux single task devices are embedded systems.

Linux is everywhere in every single device from solar panels to oil rigs.

A network of inexpensive computers connected to sensors and controllers is called an IoT *internet of things*

Release cycle indicates the frequency of updates.


















